Introduction:
The bot is a short term for robots, they are computer programs that tend to mimic human behaviour. They come with immense potential and utilities most of them revolving around the fact that they help humans automate their work. 

How they work: 
Bots are made from sets of algorithms that aid them in their designated tasks. It is important to mention that an algorithm is nothing but an opinion, in coded form. The bot’s behaviour will depend on the person who developed the algorithm and believes the flow of conversation should be. While there are a lot of opinions on how they sound fake and make a conversation inauthentic and hence can be sensed immediately, they see widespread use on social media platforms.

Bots usage: 
Bots see wide usage in social media platforms like Discord and Telegram, in terms of conversations. On Twitter and Instagram, they offer a higher number of followers to a lot of people.
However, the metaverse has found another unique use case for them.
The metaverse fuses the digital world with the physical one and the growth of such spaces has been tremendous in recent times.

Bot for testing metaverses:
Companies build metaverses for all sorts of events and to keep them running smoothly, they need to perform several testing checks. Previously, the checks were made by inviting people to join the metaverse space at the same time to check the ability of the software and gauge the server loads. This was a tedious activity and getting a huge number of people to join in space, at the same time was another issue that was faced regularly. So, now there are services that are activated, the bots and allowed into the metaverse for performing regular checks.
This has helped in improving the scalability of the software and further helped launch it as a service that can be used by other metaverses too. 

Metaverse bot testing services are a potent way to future-proofing the metaverse as they provide the developer with an extensive report of the metaverse they interacted with. The bots can capture information like
 The look and feel of the space
 Number of  objects they interacted with
 The number of interactions that are taking place in a metaverse simultaneously.

Metaverse and bots:
The metaverse is thought to be the next edition of the internet, and hence it is believed to come with uses of augmented reality and virtual reality that help in making the space more natural, realistic and legitimate. It performs a lot of functions like eye-ball tracking or the number of chats performed to gauge the user’s mood, preferences and likely future interactions. 

It is necessary to with the expectations set by the metaverse and also develops products with actual productive uses. The potential lies in making AI trainer bots, they can combine the power of the metaverse to operate with a replica of actual instruments of the real world, giving hands-on training while keeping the human touch intact with the digital human avatar, who would be the trainer for the program. 

Another potential use case lies in the algorithmic guessing of unforeseeable repairs/glitches that need to be fixed. These can then be communicated to the engineers in the real world and they can always be ahead of the curve and prevent any system failures or minor problems.

Summing up
Metaverse technology companies have developed testing services using bots that can be used to check loads of systems and prepare the company’s servers to sustain the loads and traffic by giving out calculated numbers. These services can be availed via the company’s website and the results can be retrieved by deploying the bots in any metaverse.

There are two potential use cases of bots that are discussed, the first one deals with human-trainer-like facilities that help learners get hands-on training with a human touch via digital avatars. The second use case is using bots for checking unforeseeable glitches and problems that can be solved beforehand to prevent minor or major problems that may occur.


